## Author Bios

**Graham J. Rogers** graduated in electrical engineering with first
class honors from Southampton University, Hampshire, U.K., in 1961.
He had a varied career in engineering practice and teaching. In the
United Kingdom, he was a consultant mathematician with Associated
Electrical Industries (AEI), Rugby, and taught in the Electrical
Engineering Department of Southampton University. He immigrated to
Canada in 1978 to work in the System Planning Division of Ontario
Hydro, where he was Senior Engineer, Specialist Control. In 1993, he
retired from Ontario Hydro and formed Cherry Tree Scientific Software,
through which he performed consulting in power system dynamics and
control and developed computer programs for power system analysis. He
was an Associate Editor of *IEEE Transactions on Control System
Technology* and was on several IEEE Power Engineering Society
committees. He was also an adjunct associate professor at the
University of Toronto. He published 40 papers on various aspects of
power system analysis and control. He authored the first edition of
*Power System Oscillations*, first published in 2000.

**Ryan T. Elliott**, **Ph.D.**, received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in
electrical engineering from the University of Washington, Seattle, in
2012 and 2020, respectively. From 2012 to 2015, he was a Research
Scientist with the Electric Power Systems Research Department at
Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, NM. In 2015, he returned
to the University of Washington to pursue a Ph.D., working as a
Research Assistant in the Renewable Energy Analysis Laboratory from
2015 to 2020. In 2020, he rejoined Sandia where he is currently a
Principal Member of Technical Staff. Dr. Elliott led the development
of the WECC model validation guideline for central station
photovoltaic power plants in 2015. He also received an R&D 100 Award
for his contributions to a real-time damping control system using PMU
feedback in 2017.

**Daniel J. Trudnowksi**, **Ph.D.**, received the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from Montana State University,
Bozeman, in 1988 and 1991, respectively. From 1991 through 1995, he
was with Battelle at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory where
he was a Research Engineer. In 1995, he joined Montana Technological
University in Butte, where he is currently a Professor of Electrical
Engineering. Over the past 30 years, his research activities have
primarily focused on problems related to power system dynamics and
controls. Dr. Trudnowski is a Fellow of the IEEE and is a registered
professional engineer in the state of Montana.

**Felipe Wilches-Bernal**, **Ph.D.**, received the M.S. degree in
control systems and signal processing from Universit√© Paris-Sud XI,
Orsay, France, and a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute. He currently works as a Software Engineer at
Google in Boulder, CO. From 2015 to 2022 he worked at the Electric
Power Systems Research Department at Sandia National Laboratories in
Albuquerque, NM, as a Senior and then Principal Member of Technical
Staff. During his work at Sandia, he served as a key technical
contributor and a PI/Co-PI of multiple projects in the power systems
integration area. Dr. Wilches-Bernal's research interests include
power system stability and control, renewable energy and smart grid
technologies, and signal processing, control techniques and machine
learning applied to power systems. He was a key contributor to the
team that received an R&D 100 Award in 2017 for developing a control
system for active damping of inter-area oscillations.

**Denis Osipov**, **Ph.D.**, received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in
electrical engineering from the Donetsk National Technical University,
Donetsk, Ukraine, in 2004 and 2005, respectively. He received his
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN, USA in 2018. From 2019 through 2023 he was a research
scientist at the Department of Electrical, Computer, and Systems
Engineering in Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, USA when he
lead the RPI team to win 2021 IEEE-NASPI Oscillation Source Location
Contest. Since 2023 he has been Manager Reliability Planning at the
Department of System Planning and Analysis in New York Power
Authority, Albany, NY, USA.

**Joe H. Chow**, **Ph.D.**, is Institute Professor Emeritus in
Electrical, Computer, and Systems Engineering at Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute. He received his B.S. degrees in Electrical
Engineering and Mathematics from the University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, in 1974, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, in 1975 and 1977. He worked
in the power systems business at General Electric Company in 1978 and
joined Rensselaer in 1987. He is a Life Fellow of the IEEE and a
member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering. He is a past
recipient of the Donald Eckman Award from the American Automatic
Control Council, the Control Systems Technology Award from the IEEE
Control Systems Society, the Charles Concordia Power Systems
Engineering Award and the Outstanding Power Engineering Educator Award
from the IEEE Power and Energy Systems Society, and the Herman
Halperin Electric Transmission and Distribution Award from IEEE.

[comment]: <> (eof)
