# About
Since the publication of the first edition of this book, wide-area
measurement systems (WAMS) have transformed the way that power system
oscillations are monitored and studied. These systems consist of
networks of time-synchronized sensors distributed over wide
geographic areas—enabling new approaches not only for situational
awareness but also for power system control. This fully revised and
expanded edition discusses the core ideas behind WAMS, real-time
situational awareness, and wide-area control as they pertain to power
system oscillations. Major technological advancements since the
release of the first edition are covered in five new chapters. This
new material highlights a first-of-its-kind demonstration project in
which a 3.1 GW high-voltage direct current transmission line was used
to damp inter-area oscillations in a large interconnection. It also
discusses oscillations in systems dominated by inverter-based
generation, including forced oscillations, which arise not from
resonances but exogenous system inputs. The book includes many worked
examples throughout the text using the Power System Toolbox© with
MATLAB® which allows readers to analyze and/or reproduce every
example on their own.

Power System Oscillations, Second Edition, will be a valuable
reference for practicing power system engineers working in the
electric utility industry. Professors, students, and research
scientists studying power system dynamics will also find it to be a
welcomed reference text.

This book:
- Provides a foundation in the theory of electromechanical oscillations
- Covers the fundamentals of wide-area measurement systems (WAMS)
- Includes MATLAB® based software and scripts

[comment]: <> (eof)
